In the last lectures, we finally got our application or our chart here to display our own static data.
Now displaying static data is nice but it would be nicer if we as a user could enter some values into
our chart.
Right now if I do drag this in here, we do have these regions that doesn't really do anything,
so somehow our chart is not working as expected, it just displays our static data.
So let's change this now and for this,
we need to connect the sections here where we allow the user to add data to our code
and then of course do something in our code to handle that data correctly.
Let's start with connecting these two input fields.
We already have them, category data and measure data and if we have a look at our code, it's here in the
capabilities of JSON file that we configure this because this configures the capabilities of our chart,
so which features we want exposed to the user.
Now if we have a look at it, here dataRoles and dataViewMappings, that's important to us. dataRoles
is what we display to the user basically, it's this display name which the user sees.
So if we change the category data here to maybe legend or axis and the measure data here, we change
this to let's say value and I hit save and go back and you reload this chart,
you see that it changed to legend and value here too,
still it wouldn't work though. The other fields here are internal mappings, name simply means how we can use it
internally and kind is important. Grouping means this is a discrete value basically,
so this is by which our data is grouped
whereas measure means this is the value we can actually work with, we want to display so to say.
So in our sales example, grouping, the category here would basically be our regions whereas the measure is
our numbers. dataViewMappings is how we use that internally, here we map this to an object basically which
has the categorical node or property which then in turn has the categories property where we will have
all the categories,
that's what we defined with for in here
and we have the values property in categorical 2 where we basically bind it to an array of measures,
so that we have an array of values. And this might look complex to you and of course you can dive much
deeper into this and actually have a look at the API folder and here at the schema for the capabilities
if you want to really dive super hardcore into this and understand what you can define, for this Getting
Started section,
this is all we need
and often times, this is all you might need.
However let's now have a look at how we can use this.
We have a legend and we have a value and we map it to this object where we then will be able to access
it.
Well we need to access it in our visual.ts file and we need to access it in the update method
because that again is where we react to changes in the sizing or in data.